http://bayimg.com/JAjmnAaDC
<b>(CSBLife Green Form)</b>

Reflection for Frosh Orientation Program:

<i>What I expected in this orientation is not really a bonding type of program, rather just a long discussion about DLS-CSB and some rules 

and regulations, but, I found out I was wrong when the orientators started separating us by section. I was really nervous back then 

because, I'm about to enter to a whole new level and I'm about to meet more  frosh like me that I wasn't exactly sure if my fast heart 

beats was because of both excitement and nervousness or just plain anxiety, but, during the day as I expected, I learned a lot of things 

about DLS-CSB and how the people, who had been part of the CSB family already, will interact with you and how friendly they are; Our 

orientators, who were the ones in charge of us, also toured us around the school to prevent us from being lost on the first day. All the 

anxiety and/or nervousness gradually decreased as I went on and met more people. I thought everything would just be the same as 

before that I'll be the typical quiet 'smart' girl I am, but I was encouraged to speak up so I did.  My tension was easily taken away and my 

usual anxiety disappeared and everything seemed to feel rushed that in a blink of an eye, the day already ended. I regretted a bit that I 

didn't get to actively talk much to others only a few, but, I knew now that in the first day, I should be more open and be more active in 

getting to know my blockmates for the first term.</i>

Guide Questions and Reflection for Star 2011 Recital [Shadow Play]:

1. What Benildean Core Values have you learned from the STAR Recital 2011 (Shadow Play, Intermediate Acting, Dance and Coro) 

performances ?
2. What scene/production did you like the most?
3. How does it affect you as a Benildean-Lasallian ?
4. Among the core values, what struck you the most based from the production that you watched?
5. Give a short reflection from the production that you have seen.

<i>Among the Benildean Core Values, I have learned more about the creativity, portrayed by the shadow play for creating shadows as 

their medium of telling a story. Another is that of faith, portrayed by the family in the story of the shadow play. The child had enough faith 

that her mother will return and the parents had enough faith towards God that they will eventually have a blessed and unique child, in 

which they were given, though it was one of God's angels. What I liked the most is how the shadows told the story. As a Benildean-

Lasallian, I am challenged to be more creative and improve on certain ideas in which I can make a basis on how the shadow play did. Since I'm a 

GDD student, I can have the shadow play as basis for a certain game and make it more unique. Other than the technical things, I learned a 

lot of the moral values presented in the story: the respect for the parents is seen there and the faith in God. The story presented 

can serve as a guide or a teaching value to every person in the audience.</i>

Guide Questions and Reflection for Karilyo:

1. What can you do to prevent what happened in the 2nd part of the story?
2. How does it affect you as part of the Lasallian community ?
3. Give at least 2 Benildean Core Values shown on the production 
4. How can you share these values to others?
5. Give your own personal insights about the play

<i>In the second part of the play, one can prevent this by being a steward to the environment, the animals and the people around you. 

Keep everything balanced. As part of the La Sallian community, I am encouraged and obliged to serve as a model in being a steward to 

mother earth, because in the story, what happened was that everything was destroyed. What God slowly and preciously created was 

destroyed and to prevent this is to prevent and stop pollution and a remedial to the damage that the people did today. Another insight is 

that one can see some Benildean Core Values like Social Responsibility, in which we should be responsible to everything around us not 

only to the people but to the non-living things surrounding us and Deeply Rooted in Faith, in which we should not always lose hope in 

problems like pollution and such because such problems were given to us as a test from God, because, He wants us to take care of His 

creations.</i>

Guide Questions and Reflection for Healed Hearts:

1. Give at least (2) Benildean Core Values shown on the production.
3. How do handle your own grief?
2. How can you share these values to others?
4. How does it affect you as part of the Lasallian community?
5. Give your own personal insights about the show.

<i>In this event, there are Benildean Core Values presented. One is that of Social Responsibility, in which we should be sensitive of 

others' needs and not only your own needs, because in a way, it'll affect your behavior and yourself, entirely. Another is that of Deeply 

rooted in Faith, in which whatever problems you have share it with God and don't be consumed in self-grief. God will talk to you, because 

He will always be there for you. By giving advices to other people, helping other people to control and being sensitive to others' well-

being, I can share these values and as a part of the Lasallian community, I should take part of organizations that can cater to people's 

needs and help them in any way I can to remove their grievances.</i>

Guide Questions and Reflection for NSTP Orientation:

4. What is the role of NSTP in nation-building?
5. How will NSTP help you become good Filipino citizen and good Benildean-Lasallian?
2. What are the three (3) program components of NSTP? Differentiate the three.
1. What is the aim of NSTP?
3. What program component do you intend to enrol? Why?

<i>What is NSTP? NSTP is what you call a National Service Training Program. Its aim is to enhance nationalism, defense preparedness, 

self-awareness and civic consciousness. What the NSTP does in nation-building is to improve in teamwork and unity, in which we can find a 

way to do something to help everbody not just one person. There are three program components. First is that of ROTC. ROTC deals 

with military training that will motivate, train and mobilize the youth for national defense preparedness. Second is that of CWTS. CWTS 

provides an opportunity for the youth to provide energy, time and talent and even resources to other Filipinos. Last but not the least, 

LTS, in which the youth is given the chance to become a teacher to the younger generation in terms of mathematical abilities, reading and 

writing. Among these three programs, I plan to take up CWTS, because, I don't have much patience for teaching other people, in which we 

should do in LTS and I am rather too weak in physical activities that I may not last in ROTC. Taking up at least one NSTP program can help us 

become a good Filipino citizen and good Benildean-Lasallian. By participating in its activities that will build up support and teamwork, we can 

all team up to help other Filipinos and give service to them if needed, not just only Benildean-Lasallians. </i>